README.md, before:

# LED Manager Library for Arduino IDE
The LED Manager library provides functions to manage solid-color (2-lead) LEDs, as well as 3-color RGB (4-lead) LEDs.
LED Manager uses hardware timers for blinking and alternating colors so that LED blinking happens independent of other operations.
Thus, even if the processor is running code that blocks, the blinking will still occur on schedule. 
Supports ESP8266, Atmel AVR-based platforms (Uno, Mega, Nano, Pro Micro, etc.), and Atmel SAM3X8E ARM Cortex-M3 platforms such as the Due.
  
Both common cathode and common anode RGB LEDs are supported.
For a common cathode LED, the MCU is a current source and you set each pin connected to the R, G, and B leads HIGH to turn them on.
The LED has a common ground.
With a common anode LED, the MCU is a current sink.
You have a common anode that is set to Vcc, and you set each pin connected to the R, G, and B leads LOW to turn the LED on.

In both cases, be sure to have a current limiting resistor on each of the red, green, and blue lines between the MCU (or ground) and the LED.
(See [LEDCALC] for an online tool to help you determine the current resistor to use).

This library supersedes the [LED3] library.
It provides all of the functionality of the [LED3] library plus new features.

THis library requires the [SysTimer Library].

# Programming Interface
## Constructors
```C++
SingleLED (const uint8_t pin);
```

This instantiates a single-color LED using the specified pin.
The pin is set to ```OUTPUT``` mode by the library.

```C++
RGBLED (const uint8_t redPin, const uint8_t greenPin, const uint8_t bluePin, LEDType ledType = LEDType::CATHODE);
```

This instantiates an RGB LED using the specified red, green, and blue pins.
The fourth paramater is optional, and specifies the type of RGB LED.
The default (no argument supplied) is a common cathode type LED.
If the LED has a common anode, the optional parameter should be ```LEDType::ANODE```.
Each pin is set to ```OUTPUT``` mode by the library.

## RGB LED Colors
RGB LED colors consist of a 24-bit value,
with the most significant byte (byte 2) representing red, byte 1 representing green, and the least significant byte (byte 0) representing blue.
The following colors are predefined.
Note that the colors are declared within a scoped enumeration to avoid naming conflicts.
Each color must be entered as shown below.

|Color|Hexadecimal value|
|---|---|
|LEDColor::NONE|0x000000|
|LEDColor::RED|0xFF0000|
|LEDColor::GREEN|0x00FF00|
|LEDColor::BLUE|0x0000FF|
|LEDCOLOR::MAGENTA|0xFF00F0|
|LEDCOLOR::YELLOW|0xFFFF00|
|LEDColor::CYAN|0x00FFFF|
|LEDColor::WHITE|0xFFFFFF|
|LEDColor::ORANGE|0xFFA500|
|LEDColor::PURPLE|0x800080|

Other combinations may be passed as a color to the functions below by using a static or C-style cast.
For example:
```C++
led.setColor(LEDColor::GREEN);
uint32_t value = 0x772017;
led.setColor(static_cast<LEDColor>(value));           // C++ cast
led.setColor((LEDColor)value);                        // C-style cast
```

Pulse width modulation (PWM) will be used when a red, green, or blue component is not either all on or all off (0xFF or 0).
As PWM is implemented with ```analogWrite``` there is the potential for unexpected interactions with interrupts and timers.
While this does not typically happen, the library will use ```digitalWrite``` on a per-pin basis for solid colors
such as RED or CYAN to avoid potential issues as well as reduce overall resource utilization.

## Functions

```C++
void setColor(const LEDColor color1, const LEDColor color2 = LEDColor::NONE,  const LEDColor color3 = LEDColor::NONE,
              const LEDColor color4 = LEDColor::NONE, const LEDColor color5 = LEDColor::NONE, const LEDColor color6 = LEDColor::NONE);
```

Set from one to six colors of an RGB LED.
At least one color must be specified.
When the state is set to ```LEDstate::ON``` then the LED is illuminated using the first color in the parameter list.
The remaining parameters are ignored.
When the state is set to ```LEDstate::ALTERNATE``` then the LED will cycle through the set of colors passed as arguments.
In this case, the first color set to ```LEDColor::NONE``` terminates the list, or when all six colors have been displayed.
The cycle then repeats.
See the previous section for using the pre-defined colors or setting your own value.
See the ```setState``` function to set the interval for alternating colors.

Setting one or more colors does _not_ illuminate the LED;
it must be explicitly turned on via a call to ```setState``` as described below.

```C++
const LEDColorArray& getColor(void);
```

Returns a const reference to an array of LEDColor colors containing the values set by ```setColor```.

```C++
void setState(const LEDState ledState, const uint32_t interval = 500);
```

This function changes the state of a single-color or RGB LED.
The state change has immediate effect.
Available states are as follows:

|State|Action|
|---|---|
|LEDState::ON|Turns the LED on|
|LEDState::OFF|Turns the LED off|
|LEDState::BLINK_ON|Starts blinking the LED, with the initial state set to ON|
|LEDState::BLINK_OFF|Starts blinking the LED, with the initial state set to OFF|
|LEDState::ALTERNATE|Starts alternating the color of an RGB LED between the previously set values|

The _interval_ parameter is optional.
It is only meaningful for LEDs that are blinking or alternating.
The value is specified in milliseconds, and the default is 500ms.

```C++
LEDState getState(void);
```

Returns the current LED state.

# Examples
1. _LightCycle.ino_: Demonstrates the different modes for single-color and RGB LEDs.
This example demonstreates how to alternate between two separate LEDs or use alternating colors on a single RGB LED.
2. _ChooseColor.ino_: Reads a 24-bit heaxadecimal color code from the serial port and displays that color.
See this example for how to set arbitrary color values other than the pre-defined ones.

# Installation

This library is also maintained in GitHub, which has a release mechanism.
The easiest way to install this is to get the [Latest Release] and install it using the Arduino IDE Library Manager.

Of course, you may also clone this repository and manually install the files if you prefer.

# Copyright Notice

Copyright 2017 Rob Redford.
This work is licensed under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 International License.
To view a copy of this license, visit [CC BY-SA].

[SysTimer Library]: https://github.com/Rom3oDelta7/SysTimer
[Latest Release]: https://github.com/Rom3oDelta7/LEDManager/releases/latest
[LEDCALC]: http://ledcalc.com/
[LED3]: https://github.com/Rom3oDelta7/LED3
[CC BY-SA]: https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0

Commit message:

Readme update: important caveats addded Move LED declarations inside loop to workaround AVR compiler bug

README.md, after:

# LED Manager Library for Arduino IDE
The LED Manager library provides functions to manage solid-color (2-lead) LEDs, as well as 3-color RGB (4-lead) LEDs.
LED Manager uses hardware timers for blinking and alternating colors so that LED blinking happens independent of other operations.
Thus, even if the processor is running code that blocks, the blinking will still occur on schedule. 
Supports ESP8266, Atmel AVR-based platforms (Uno, Mega, Nano, Pro Micro, etc.), and Atmel SAM3X8E ARM Cortex-M3 platforms such as the Due.
  
Both common cathode and common anode RGB LEDs are supported.
For a common cathode LED, the MCU is a current source and you set each pin connected to the R, G, and B leads HIGH to turn them on.
The LED has a common ground.
With a common anode LED, the MCU is a current sink.
You have a common anode that is set to Vcc, and you set each pin connected to the R, G, and B leads LOW to turn the LED on.

In both cases, be sure to have a current limiting resistor on each of the red, green, and blue lines between the MCU (or ground) and the LED.
(See [LEDCALC] for an online tool to help you determine the current resistor to use).

This library supersedes the [LED3] library.
It provides all of the functionality of the [LED3] library plus new features.

This library requires the [SysTimer Library].

## Programming Interface
## Constructors
```C++
SingleLED (const uint8_t pin);
```

This instantiates a single-color LED using the specified pin.
The pin is set to ```OUTPUT``` mode by the library.

```C++
RGBLED (const uint8_t redPin, const uint8_t greenPin, const uint8_t bluePin, LEDType ledType = LEDType::CATHODE);
```

This instantiates an RGB LED using the specified red, green, and blue pins.
The fourth paramater is optional, and specifies the type of RGB LED.
The default (no argument supplied) is a common cathode type LED.
If the LED has a common anode, the optional parameter should be ```LEDType::ANODE```.
Each pin is set to ```OUTPUT``` mode by the library.

### RGB LED Colors
RGB LED colors consist of a 24-bit value,
with the most significant byte (byte 2) representing red, byte 1 representing green, and the least significant byte (byte 0) representing blue.
The following colors are predefined.
Note that the colors are declared within a scoped enumeration to avoid naming conflicts.
Each color must be entered as shown below.

|Color|Hexadecimal value|
|---|---|
|LEDColor::NONE|0x000000|
|LEDColor::RED|0xFF0000|
|LEDColor::GREEN|0x00FF00|
|LEDColor::BLUE|0x0000FF|
|LEDCOLOR::MAGENTA|0xFF00F0|
|LEDCOLOR::YELLOW|0xFFFF00|
|LEDColor::CYAN|0x00FFFF|
|LEDColor::WHITE|0xFFFFFF|
|LEDColor::ORANGE|0xFFA500|
|LEDColor::PURPLE|0x800080|

Other combinations may be passed as a color to the functions below by using a static or C-style cast.
For example:
```C++
led.setColor(LEDColor::GREEN);
uint32_t value = 0x772017;
led.setColor(static_cast<LEDColor>(value));           // C++ cast
led.setColor((LEDColor)value);                        // C-style cast
```

Pulse width modulation (PWM) will be used when a red, green, or blue component is not either all on or all off (0xFF or 0).
As PWM is implemented with ```analogWrite``` there is the potential for unexpected interactions with interrupts and timers.
While this does not typically happen, the library will use ```digitalWrite``` on a per-pin basis for solid colors
such as RED or CYAN to avoid potential issues as well as reduce overall resource utilization.

### Functions

```C++
void setColor(const LEDColor color1, const LEDColor color2 = LEDColor::NONE,  const LEDColor color3 = LEDColor::NONE,
              const LEDColor color4 = LEDColor::NONE, const LEDColor color5 = LEDColor::NONE, const LEDColor color6 = LEDColor::NONE);
```

Set from one to six colors of an RGB LED.
At least one color must be specified.
When the state is set to ```LEDstate::ON``` then the LED is illuminated using the first color in the parameter list.
The remaining parameters are ignored.
When the state is set to ```LEDstate::ALTERNATE``` then the LED will cycle through the set of colors passed as arguments.
In this case, the first color set to ```LEDColor::NONE``` terminates the list, or when all six colors have been displayed.
The cycle then repeats.
See the previous section for using the pre-defined colors or setting your own value.
See the ```setState``` function to set the interval for alternating colors.

Setting one or more colors does _not_ illuminate the LED;
it must be explicitly turned on via a call to ```setState``` as described below.

```C++
const LEDColorArray& getColor(void);
```

Returns a const reference to an array of LEDColor colors containing the values set by ```setColor```.

```C++
void setState(const LEDState ledState, const uint32_t interval = 500);
```

This function changes the state of a single-color or RGB LED.
The state change has immediate effect.
Available states are as follows:

|State|Action|
|---|---|
|LEDState::ON|Turns the LED on|
|LEDState::OFF|Turns the LED off|
|LEDState::BLINK_ON|Starts blinking the LED, with the initial state set to ON|
|LEDState::BLINK_OFF|Starts blinking the LED, with the initial state set to OFF|
|LEDState::ALTERNATE|Starts alternating the color of an RGB LED between the previously set values|

The _interval_ parameter is optional.
It is only meaningful for LEDs that are blinking or alternating.
The value is specified in milliseconds, and the default is 500ms.

```C++
LEDState getState(void);
```

Returns the current LED state.

## Important Caveats
One AVR platforms, there is a bug in the compiler where the class "constructor" is not called when the object
is declared in global space (e.g. outside all functions). 
Thus, the object parameters are not properly initialized and strange behavior results.
The workaround for this is to declare the object inside a function, such as ```loop```.

There is no class "destructor" for the LED objects. 
This means that when they go out of scope (say at the end of ```loop```) they are are not destroyed.
The next time the loop starts, they are allocated anew and you quickly run out of the underlying timers that support the LED objects.
The workaround is to set your loop up so that it never exits (e.g. create a loop withing the ```loop``` function).

## Examples
1. _LightCycle.ino_: Demonstrates the different modes for single-color and RGB LEDs.
This example demonstreates how to alternate between two separate LEDs or use alternating colors on a single RGB LED.
2. _ChooseColor.ino_: Reads a 24-bit heaxadecimal color code from the serial port and displays that color.
See this example for how to set arbitrary color values other than the pre-defined ones.

## Installation

This library is also maintained in GitHub, which has a release mechanism.
The easiest way to install this is to get the [Latest Release] and install it using the Arduino IDE Library Manager.

Of course, you may also clone this repository and manually install the files if you prefer.

## Copyright Notice

Copyright 2017 Rob Redford.
This work is licensed under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 International License.
To view a copy of this license, visit [CC BY-SA].

[SysTimer Library]: https://github.com/Rom3oDelta7/SysTimer
[Latest Release]: https://github.com/Rom3oDelta7/LEDManager/releases/latest
[LEDCALC]: http://ledcalc.com/
[LED3]: https://github.com/Rom3oDelta7/LED3
[CC BY-SA]: https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0
